[MIZUHO groans]
Where did I put that thing?
Gotta be around here somewhere.
[MIZUHO]
I know it is...
A‐ha!
[MIZUHO]
Found it.
'Kay.
[NAGARA, MIZUHO gasping,
yelping]
[BOTH gasp]
‐‐[MIZUHO gasps]
‐‐[NAGARA] Rajdhani!
[MIZUHO]
Well, that's... interesting.
You're going home, am I right?
[BOTH]
Mm.
Well, I think I could
help you out with that.
I've had some ideas on that
subject over the years.
[NAGARA]
Hmm. I'll bet!
Wow...
It's really been 2,000
years since you left?
[MIZUHO]
This picture...
what happened to that
cool ship you had?
Now, now.
All questions will
be answered in time.
We have a lot
of catching up to do.
‐‐Yeah.
‐‐Huh?
[RAJDHANI]
This is incredible!
Nagara did you
put all this together?
Great work!
[RAJDHANI] But if we put this
over here and this here...
That's it, perfect!
[MIZUHO groaning]
[RAJDHANI] What do you think?
Pretty awesome, yeah?
‐‐Awesome!
‐‐[NAGARA] Mm‐hmm. Oh yeah!
Awesome!
[RAJDHANI] All righty.
That part's done with.
‐‐[speaker crackles]
‐‐[RAJDHANI] Hmm?
[RAJDHANI]
Nagara!
You think you've
got it from here?
[NAGARA]
Mm. Sure thing.
'Sup, Mizuho?
Uh...
[MIZUHO] Don't need the
big control room?
[RAJDHANI]
Mm... No, this is just perfect.
Besides...
...from this little spot,
I'll see it with my own eyes.
Okay.
Guess that means you really
aren't coming home with us.
Nope. Gonna plant myself here.
Do what you want,
but did you ever feel homesick?
I mean, you were alone
for 2,000 years.
Homesick, huh?
That takes me back.
I did travel through a world
filled with these images
that were extremely
close to my old home.
It was so similar,
it was almost shocking,
but somehow mysterious.
It was unsettling.
For the first time
since the whole thing
started all those years ago,
I felt nostalgic.
[RAJDHANI] It's funny.
I actually named that world
"Homesick."
[MIZUHO] Do you mean it was
like our old world, or what?
Yeah, but still different
in a weird way.
It was "our‐world‐like"
but not like "our world."
[MIZUHO]
Mm?
The master of that world...
He couldn't escape
his old memories‐‐
kept recreating his homeland.
The most bizarre thing about it,
was no matter how far in
you looked, you wouldn't
see another soul.
[MIZUHO]
Sounds so lonely to me.
But then, at the same time,
the whole thing
radically changed.
There were images. Yeah, all of
this one female student.
Really threw me for a loop.
[gasps]
Suddenly, there's
a vision of beauty.
Apparently, it was the likeness
of his old girlfriend.
Now this is getting juicy!
Yeah, right? I had to
give in to my curiosity.
So I just checked her
with my Scoop Scope.
It's a kind of a power
holdover I developed myself.
[MIZUHO]
Go on.
Turns out she wasn't near
as pretty as the images
made her seem.
[laughs] Those Love goggles
usually come with
a strong prescription.
Surprisingly enough, the girl
really did love him, too.
I looked more closely
at the other images.
I actually knew the place
he was from and, of course,
it wasn't nearly as charming
as the way his depictions
would have you believe.
Long story short, the guy
couldn't seem to accept reality.
His girlfriend wanted him to
be in the real world with her.
Like, be a part of
the world that was actually
in front of him.
But he couldn't bring himself to
do it, so, she ended up leaving.
With her gone,
he started to paint pictures
of her‐‐he was like
a man possessed.
Those renditions of her
were what I first saw.
The whole experience was like
being hit in
the face by reality.
But it made me wonder
if I myself was living in
some kind of fantasy as well.
I guess you could say...
...she didn't wanna relive
memories with him.
She wanted them to create
a future together.
Go into the unknown.
[RAJDHANI]
That's exactly it.
He became a prisoner
of those memories.
They took over his entire world.
[MIZUHO]
Did he... die?
[RAJDHANI]
Hmm. Now, that's hard to say.
The concept of death
is different in this world.
[MIZUHO] Death seems
so dark and scary to me.
I get this tight feeling in
my chest when I think about it.
Was it like that for Nozomi...?
Was she afraid...?
[RAJDHANI] So tell me,
have you gone to see
the world where Nozomi died?
[NAGARA]
Mm.
[RAJDHANI] Then how did you
verify that she's actually gone?
Ah, I see, one of Mizuho's cats?
Mrowr.
Of course I can't explain it...
...but she knows
things like that.
[RAJDHANI] In one world,
there was this inventor.
The other students living
there believed they were
all children of God, so they
felt it was incumbent on them
to keep their bodies
and minds pure.
They tried to achieve this
by refraining from harming
any living thing‐‐not eating
meat or killing any plants.
That was a world of fasting.
Sounds to me like
a difficult place to live.
Yeah, you'd think so, but they
were surprisingly happy.
Their civilization flourished‐‐
they created great works
of beauty and had a lot
of power holdovers.
Huh... Oh, really?
[RAJDHANI]
Well, think about it a little.
Hunger isn't that
big of a deal to us.
Anyway, there was a guy on
the outskirts of that world,
who was obsessed with dying.
Or rather, he was trying
to break up the static nature
of this realm we're in
by inventing death.
That's an odd way.
Yeah, his theory was that
death was the only means
to affect the stasis.
In theory, I admired his rather
unorthodox thought process.
Setting aside the moral issue,
this was a way to directly
challenge the rules
that govern this world.
[RAJDHANI]
But in reality...
The guy was like
the devil incarnate.
He reviled God, burned down the
forests, gorged himself on meat,
and treated his ascetic brethren
with a great deal of contempt.
He abused the stasis
to commit unspeakable acts
in the name of experimentation.
Man, I dunno. He just
sounds like a psychopath.
[RAJDHANI] Yes. He really was
an utterly despicable person.
I wanted to do him in myself.
But in the end, he successfully
invented "death."
Mission accomplished.
Since he apparently wanted
to die more than anything,
he couldn't resist
his own invention.
It worked and he got
what he wished for.
[RAJDHANI]
Mm‐hmm.
I found myself facing
his invention one day.
[RAJDHANI]
It was strange.
I could feel his
invitation to sit.
What'd you do?
[RAJDHANI]
Interestingly enough...
He didn't look much different
from before he died.
But there were slight
changes that began to appear
with every passing day.
Most noticeably in his demeanor.
Instead of railing against
what he saw as imperfections,
he could accept them.
His hatred had waned.
He had become
more like the Buddha,
leaving behind his
earthly desires.
The inventor had
transcended this world.
He came to realize that once
he moved beyond such things,
that was the end
of his life as it was.
He had achieved a form
of "death" in this world.
Anyway, I decided not to sit.
So that guy...
Do you think he hated himself?
Huh... I'm not quite sure.
And I don't truly know why he
was so obsessed with dying.
But after all these
years I've been alive,
there's one thing I've
come to understand.
As you keep building
experiences and see the world,
something changes inside you.
Individualized meanings
become more diluted, in a way.
There's a kind of homogenization
you can observe in all things.
I don't know if
I'm more apathetic,
but as this balance shifts, life
is much less personal to me.
Ultimately, I'll
become nothingness.
[RAJDHANI]
What's me is falling away.
Perhaps, like Nozomi,
I'll just be a form.
But I'll be still in
this static existence,
just in a different state.
And if that's "death" here...
Seems the same to me
as in our world.
It's true.
The soul is just a human
construct‐‐the self exists
for no reason, and it
ultimately ceases to be.
Life's a constant cycle
of vain endeavors.
[RAJDHANI] But at the same time,
since it is meaningless,
then this moment
of becoming, is a precious
and beautiful thing, indeed.
That one moment belongs
to that person alone.
She'll never come back.
[gasps]
[RAJDHANI]
However...
[NAGARA gasps]
[RAJDHANI]
Her will is still with us.
[NAGARA]
So how much is done?
[RAJDHANI]
The cats are doing their best,
but I'd say about
it's about 20% complete.
I reached out to
the others in our group.
But everyone said
they weren't going back.
The plan turned
into just us three.
I mean, Nozomi was going, too.
[NOZOMI] So if we do it this way
and go back to our old world,
we might not end up
being who we've become.
Am I right?
[NAGARA] Hmm. Things will
be different in a lot of ways,
but I don't know exactly how.
And it'll be two years later.
There's a chance
I'll be dead there, as well.
[NAGARA]
Yeah...
[NOZOMI]
Whatever.
If I'm gonna spin my wheels
thinking about what could be,
there's a big chance
that I'll be alive, yeah?
Everything we've
been through here,
could all just disappear
in an instant, and that means...
[NOZOMI]
Hmm?
Nothin'.
[NOZOMI]
If this plan works out...
...what's the first
thing you'll do?
[NAGARA] Hmm... I haven't
really thought about that.
You're kidding me. But why not?
Well, because we may
not even remember this.
Don't wanna spin my wheels
thinking about the could'ves.
[NOZOMI] Hmm. So it's
a stupid waste of time
to be thinking about it?
[NAGARA] It's just not
that big of a deal, is all.
[NOZOMI chuckles] I don't care,
'cause I'll be chowing down
on Soleil omurice,
something with a ton of
glacee strawberries on it,
then I'll eat Chinese noodles
from Hatsune until I pop.
[laughing]
You see?
It's really no big deal.
And after that... I'm gonna go
to the corner of the staff room,
find that sullen faced boy,
grab him by the lapels,
and ask him a question.
[NAGARA]
What's the question?
A simple one.
"Do you want to be friends
with me once again?" Yep.
[NAGARA sighs]
[NOZOMI] A very simple question
with a simple answer, hopefully.
To be honest, I just don't see
it being as simple as you do.
Huh?
[NAGARA]
I don't know...
Why not?
'Cause, I... Because the truth
is, you and I would've
never become friends
in the first place.
You'll have torn up
your textbook alone
and I'll have abandoned that
bird without a second thought.
You can't be sure.
We've made a lot of progress
since then anyway.
All the things
that've happened here.
None of it happened there,
so we'll forget it!
‐‐[NAGARA gasps]
‐‐[NOZOMI] Maybe.
But we did go through
a lot together.
So, my idea‐‐if one of us
remembers, they have to do this.
Hold out your hand
and ask to be friends, okay?
It's easy, right?
Now, promise that
you won't refuse me.
[NAGARA]
Mm.
[NAGARA sobbing]
I've learned much about life
and the nature of the universe,
however, all I know to do
for a friend crying in despair,
is sit beside them.
[MIZUHO]
Ohh...
[NAGARA gasps]
[MIZUHO grunts]
[GEN]
Mrr...
Come, on!
[GEN]
Mrowr. Meow!
‐‐[RAJDHANI chuckles]
‐‐[laughs]
[cackles]
[NAGARA]
Hey, Raj.
You have a second?
[RAJDHANI]
What is it?
I've got something with me.
It'll help Project Robinson.
[RAJDHANI gasps]
Perfect, now we're talking.
[MIZUHO grunting]
[NAGARA sighs] I might need
this to guide my way...
...and remind me.
[NAGARA gasps, chuckles]
So old school...
[RAJDHANI chuckles]
Indeed.
This is the rocket that first
allowed mankind to make
the giant leap to the moon.
Should be good luck, eh?
The cats supplied me
with exact copies.
And, at the top,
it's very "old‐school."
[RAJDHANI]
I was wondering...
Why do you want to go home?
Well, because there's
a lot more I wanna do.
You realize that the cats can't
live in that world anymore.
Yeah, I know.
[RAJDHANI] Going back
to our world is much easier
than what we used to believe.
Don't be fooled, though.
It takes courage and sacrifice.
And we can't get back
the time we've lost here.
But still, I know
you guys can make it.
I hope so, but it's not
just a simple trip home.
[RAJDHANI]
Hmm. You and Nagara‐
I'm late again, sorry.
Everything is ready to go.
Hope you are.
Tomorrow's the big day.
No, I won't be joining you.
I'll be staying right here.
[RAJDHANI] But if you run into
me out there, please say hello.
[NAGARA]
Hmm. Yeah, of course.
[MIZUHO]
Here.
[RAJDHANI]
Leave it to me.
[MIZUHO]
Thanks for everything...
[YAMABIKO panting]
Yamabiko... be good.
[MIZUHO whimpers]
Sakura! Goodbye!
It's time for me to go...
[MIZUHO]
Wow.
I really left them.
They're smart cats. You know
they understand your reasons.
Sakura... she'll watch
over them, won't she?
[NAGARA]
Mm‐hmm.
[RAJDHANI]
T‐minus 15 seconds.
Guidance is internal.
12, 11, 10, 9...
Ignition sequence starts.
[RAJDHANI] Tower has been safely
cleared and you're looking good.
That's all the support
I can give you.
Best of luck.
Copy that.
So long... my friend.
[RAJDHANI]
Hmm... Now then.
Hmm? From Mizuho.
How nice.
Then, this must be...
[gasps]
[chuckles]
Life in this world
may be meaningless...
...but still, cool things
happen every now and then.
These moments are
what keep me going.
[SAKURA]
Mrowr...
♪